README.md, before:

# 🔐 InvisiScan – Network Port Scanner Dashboard

InvisiScan is a Python-based ethical network reconnaissance tool that scans open ports, detects running services, evaluates risk levels, and visualizes results through a modern security-focused dashboard.

This project is built for learning, authorized security testing, and cybersecurity portfolio demonstration.

---

## 🚀 Features

- ⚡ Multi-threaded port scanning for fast results  
- 🧠 Service detection (HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, FTP, etc.)  
- 🔴 Risk classification (High / Medium / Low)  
- 📊 Interactive dashboard with visual analytics  
- 📄 Exportable scan reports (CSV)  
- 🛡️ Ethical safety warnings  
- 🖥️ One-click execution using `run.bat`

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- Python 3  
- Socket Programming  
- ThreadPoolExecutor (Concurrency)  
- Streamlit  
- HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
- Chart.js  

---

## 🎨 UI / UX Design

The InvisiScan dashboard follows a Security Operations Center (SOC) inspired dark theme focused on clarity, usability, and rapid security insight.

### UI/UX Highlights
- Dark theme for reduced eye strain  
- Color-coded risk levels (High / Medium / Low)  
- Visual charts for quick threat analysis  
- Clean separation of summary, banners, and raw data  
- Minimalistic and professional layout  

---

## ⚙️ Installation & Usage

### Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/s4bztories/Invisi Scan.git
cd InvisiScan

### Run (Windows)

This will install required dependencies and launch the dashboard in your browser.

---

## 🧪 Sample Output

- Port 22 → Open (SSH) → HIGH Risk  
- Port 80 → Open (HTTP) → MEDIUM Risk  
- Port 443 → Open (HTTPS) → MEDIUM Risk  

---

## ⚠️ Ethical Disclaimer

This tool is intended strictly for educational purposes and authorized security testing only.

Do NOT scan systems without explicit permission.  
The developer is not responsible for misuse of this tool.

---

## 📌 Learning Outcomes

- Understanding of TCP/IP networking  
- Practical port scanning techniques  
- Ethical hacking best practices  
- Dashboard-based security visualization  
- Professional GitHub project structuring  

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**JeyaSabarinath**  
Cybersecurity & Ethical Hacking Enthusiast  

GitHub: https://github.com/s4bztories  

---

## ⭐ Support

If you find this project useful:
- Star ⭐ the repository  
- Fork 🍴 the project  
- Learn and build responsibly

Commit message:

Add prerequisites for InvisiScan installation
Added prerequisites section detailing system requirements and necessary installations for running InvisiScan.

README.md, after:

# 🔐 InvisiScan – Network Port Scanner Dashboard

InvisiScan is a Python-based ethical network reconnaissance tool that scans open ports, detects running services, evaluates risk levels, and visualizes results through a modern security-focused dashboard.

This project is built for learning, authorized security testing, and cybersecurity portfolio demonstration.

---

## 🚀 Features

- ⚡ Multi-threaded port scanning for fast results  
- 🧠 Service detection (HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, FTP, etc.)  
- 🔴 Risk classification (High / Medium / Low)  
- 📊 Interactive dashboard with visual analytics  
- 📄 Exportable scan reports (CSV)  
- 🛡️ Ethical safety warnings  
- 🖥️ One-click execution using `run.bat`

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- Python 3  
- Socket Programming  
- ThreadPoolExecutor (Concurrency)  
- Streamlit  
- HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
- Chart.js  

---

## 🎨 UI / UX Design

The InvisiScan dashboard follows a Security Operations Center (SOC) inspired dark theme focused on clarity, usability, and rapid security insight.

### UI/UX Highlights
- Dark theme for reduced eye strain  
- Color-coded risk levels (High / Medium / Low)  
- Visual charts for quick threat analysis  
- Clean separation of summary, banners, and raw data  
- Minimalistic and professional layout  

---

## ⚙️ Installation & Usage
## ✅ Prerequisites

Before running InvisiScan, ensure the following are installed on your system:

- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)
- Windows OS (for `run.bat`)
- Internet connection (for installing dependencies)

Required Python libraries (installed automatically by `run.bat`):
- Flask / Streamlit
- Socket
- Concurrent Futures


### Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/s4bztories/Invisi-Scan.git
cd InvisiScan

### Run (Windows)

This will install required dependencies and launch the dashboard in your browser.

---

## 🧪 Sample Output

- Port 22 → Open (SSH) → HIGH Risk  
- Port 80 → Open (HTTP) → MEDIUM Risk  
- Port 443 → Open (HTTPS) → MEDIUM Risk  

---

## ⚠️ Ethical Disclaimer

This tool is intended strictly for educational purposes and authorized security testing only.

Do NOT scan systems without explicit permission.  
The developer is not responsible for misuse of this tool.

---

## 📌 Learning Outcomes

- Understanding of TCP/IP networking  
- Practical port scanning techniques  
- Ethical hacking best practices  
- Dashboard-based security visualization  
- Professional GitHub project structuring  

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**JeyaSabarinath**  
Cybersecurity & Ethical Hacking Enthusiast  

GitHub: https://github.com/s4bztories  

---

## ⭐ Support

If you find this project useful:
- Star ⭐ the repository  
- Fork 🍴 the project  
- Learn and build responsibly
